ğ—§ğ˜†ğ—½ğ—²ğ˜€ ğ—¼ğ—³ ğ—–ğ—¹ğ—¼ğ˜‚ğ—± ğ—–ğ—¼ğ—ºğ—½ğ˜‚ğ˜ğ—¶ğ—»ğ—´ ğ—¦ğ—²ğ—¿ğ˜ƒğ—¶ğ—°ğ—²ğ˜€

There are three main types of cloud computing services: Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS), Platforms-as-a-Service (PaaS), and Software-as-a-Service (SaaS).
 
ğ—œğ—»ğ—³ğ—¿ğ—®ğ˜€ğ˜ğ—¿ğ˜‚ğ—°ğ˜ğ˜‚ğ—¿ğ—² ğ—®ğ˜€ ğ—® ğ—¦ğ—²ğ—¿ğ˜ƒğ—¶ğ—°ğ—² (ğ—œğ—®ğ—®ğ—¦) is the most basic offering of cloud computing services. With IaaS, we can rent the infrastructure like servers, virtual machines (VMs), storage, networks, operating systems, etc. from a cloud provider by paying a fee based on our usage. We can spin up resources and scale up or scale out very quickly based on our needs. Of course, once we no longer need the resources, we can delete them and pay only for the time we used them.

ğ—£ğ—¹ğ—®ğ˜ğ—³ğ—¼ğ—¿ğ—º ğ—®ğ˜€ ğ—® ğ—¦ğ—²ğ—¿ğ˜ƒğ—¶ğ—°ğ—² (ğ—£ğ—®ğ—®ğ—¦). With PaaS we can directly use the services and environments for developing, testing, delivering, and managing software applications as required. This makes it easier for developers to quickly create web, API, mobile apps, etc. without worrying about setting up or managing the underlying infrastructure of servers, storage, network, and databases, etc. needed for development. GitHub, Docker, etc.

ğ—¦ğ—¼ğ—³ğ˜ğ˜„ğ—®ğ—¿ğ—² ğ—®ğ˜€ ğ—® ğ—¦ğ—²ğ—¿ğ˜ƒğ—¶ğ—°ğ—² (ğ—¦ğ—®ğ—®ğ—¦). When we are using a SaaS model, we consume software applications over the Internet as needed and usually based on a subscription model. Here, cloud providers are responsible for managing the underlying infrastructure, operating system, software, etc. They even take care of software upgrades and security patching. We can just connect to the application over the Internet using our browser.
